So we've done fantastically well so far.
We've got our main Twitter page which shows the latest tweets of all of our users.
We've got these as time line which shows tweets of people that they are following.
We've got the your tweets page which shows tweets on of our current user and the user can also post
tweets.
And of course logon and log out in a sophisticated manner.
So all that's left is being able to search tweets and setting up public profiles as well.
So let's start off with search.
We're going to need a new page
so I'll create a file search to pay HP
open that up
and we'll set up the indexed or ph pay as well.
I have snatched up HP
and I felt the need to open that again
so I have good old high there and we're going to need to change the code for the search box so that
it has
an input
with a type of hidden a name of page and a valley of search.
So that should we direct the form submission to the home page or the search page.
And the name for our search term will be too short for query
Okay.
So now we should be able to fill in the search box once that's all saved and I'm going to search for
test what you research and you can see that's redirected to the search page with a queue of test and
we've got our high there as well.
Wonderful.
So let's copy the home page code again.
This time instead of recent tweets we're going to have search results
and we'll have display tweets
with A-type office search.
Back over to functions dupped Page Pate
will set this up him
so if type is equal to search how are we going to set up a search.
Or as always there are many ways that we could do it.
The simplest way is to just look for the search term in the tweet content.
So I'm going to say where tweet is like
and then
we use the present signs to look for anything and then
they search string and then anything else.
So that should allow us to search for whatever we want.
And there we go test and test and I think it's probably worth in this case echoing
showing results for and then
that display that
as so they know what they're searching for.
I notice I've put my secure real escape string around that as well just in case they're trying to put
any malicious code into your page and something going wrong.
Sharing results for yes.
That's right.
And then that should do it.
Things still going wrong.
Same results for Calabrian escapes during the there.
Yep.
And of course you single quite at the very end
began.
So that was easy enough to going to pop search results in there.
And of course we could update that very easily with anything we wanted could search for this etc..
So no that's not a particularly sophisticated search system to do that.
We'd have to write a lot more code or use some kind of HP plugin but it gets the job done.
So all that remains then is to show public profiles.
So we'll will need one more page which has a name of public profiles.
So let's set that up
and open it up.
And we'll also set it up an index to pay HP
and where we go down the bottom now
because we'll start off with a friendly hello
and then we want to be able to do two things on the public profiles page.
We want to be able to show a list of everyone on the site.
And if a certain user is selected to show the tweets of that particular user.
So first things first copy the
home page code.
And what we'll do is we'll check for the existence
of a user ID
and display
different results.
Depending on whether there is one say if there isn't then
let's have active users.
And
we'll have a function to do this called display uses which of course will set up in functions that page
should be pretty straightforward.
We just want to grab all of the users and display their e-mail addresses.
So let's find some carryed
to do that for us.
I'm just going to copy that chunk say hey we're going to selects everything from uses
and I'm going to limit it to 10 and then I'm not going to check that there are any because there will
definitely be at least my test ones that I've put in the
Remember we'll need a global
link and then find out I'm just going to L.K.
email day.
Yep it's been a particularly beautiful
put them in paragraph tags.
There we go.
So you might want to create some kind of user search or pagination system which shows the first 10 and
then you can click to view the next 10 if you like.
That's fairly straightforward so I'm not going to go through that here but what I do want to do is link
up each of these active users so that they're actually a link
to
pages equal to a public profiles and user ID is equal to a
in fact from the users table it's just ID.
So let's just check that.
So they're now all nicely linked up.
If I choose to have to come.
So we now have a user ID in RL as well which means that we are in this section here.
So what we want to do is display tweets
from a specific user.
So I'm going to call using just the user ID.
And then finally over in functions or PH We will add a new Where clause and this time we can check to
see if type is equal to something because we don't know what it be critical just be a number but we
can use numeric
to see if it's a user ID.
So just to check that that's working.
I'm going to echo type and we should get an eye.
There we go.
Wonderful.
Yep so that's loads.
But I haven't included my where clause yet so that's that and we want where user ID equals and then
we'll have my secure ally real escape string
type and then that will show
the tweets of that particular user
and it will be good to see which user where following here so we can actually use this carryed we're
going to get the uses
we want.
To use type than
the user and then we can just echo H2 and
we'll have the user name
or in our case the e-mail address
and that wheat's
there we go.
And that's it.
We've actually created a remarkably complete Twitter clone where we can search the existing user's tweets.
We can post a tweet
that was posted successfully.
We can say it straight away on the timeline.
We can view the tweets of the people that we're following and we can follow them and unfollow them using
AJAX.
We can view a list of our own tweets and view all of the public profiles and view their tweets or not.
If they don't have any one very small thing that's just come to mind actually as I did the run through
is that we get to link up these links to the public profiles.
So let's just quickly do that.
When we're displaying the tweets we don't just want to show the use of e-mail.
We want to link to
the user ID
says Click the link that this is going to be
something like page it was public profile and user id
he calls and then the user ID.
So let's just test that there we go.
They're now all linked up so if I click on one of those links to that particular profile so great i
hope you enjoyed that.
I really like the app that we've ended up with.
And I like the structure as well that the views are now separated from the major functions of the code
indexed page is just used to display which ever page we want and we've got functions to contain the
main logic of the app and actions is essentially our API which we can then call to do things like post
a tweet or lock the user in.
I hope you enjoy them and I hope it's inspired you to create something similar.
And once you've built what will be the next big social network do tweet me a link and I'll forward it
to the world.